The Joe Rogan experience.
I was watching that documentary on one of my flights recently about the, uh,
the Chinese exclusion act.
I've seen that document what's that there was this whole act in the, uh, they,
they were showing about like the first Chinese guy that came to America.
And I think it was in the, uh, 17 hundreds. He came over,
then he proved to be a good worker. And eventually by the 18 hundreds,
there was like 60,000 Chinese people. And then for some reason,
America had a problem with them and they, they had this exclusion act too.
Um, they'd even allowed black people to be free and black people to vote,
but the Chinese were considered less than human couldn't.
This is the 18 hundreds. So this when.
1882. Yeah. So this, when they were working on the railroads.
Lot, yeah. Then they let them come in and work on the railroad,
but they wouldn't allow them become citizens.
Bro. You ever see photos of Chinese people working on the railroads.
They're some of the bleakest photos.
And they all had their hair back.
Like their foreheads were huge for some of their way they would pull their hair
back.
They probably didn't want their hair to get stuck on the.
Track. That sounds about right. Yeah. Yeah.
Imagine train comes by and catches you by the hair.
Oh yeah. They, they, uh, they used them pretty badly.
It's a horrific story. It's but the, the photos, we, I was watching that, uh,
Hulu, uh docu-series Sasquatch and, uh,
it was talking a lot about, you know,
like the people that they used to to make the railroads and
to, to, uh, mine and the people that, that used to, uh,
chop to cut down the trees up in the Pacific Northwest and uh, up in,
uh, yeah, Northern California. Yeah. With the, yeah.
There's these photos that they,
they showed of these Chinese folks that were working on those railroads.
And it's so depressing, man. Yeah.
They were treated like.
And there's just no hope you're not getting outta that.
There's no upward mobility. There's no nothing. There's no future. Yeah.
There's uh, no promise.
Yeah. And then they weren't allowing them to become us citizens,
even if they were born here, you know.
It's crazy. Even today, like in Harvard,
it's were difficult for Asian people to get in than anybody else. Really. Yeah.
There's a lawsuit about it right now. Yeah.
Apparently they have so many Asian folks that, uh,
were getting into Harvard that they decided to specifically tailor
their tests to make it more difficult or their requirements or what they a uh,
what they, what, see, I don't wanna this up because, uh,
Andrew Yang's people were the ones who were talking to me about it.
One of the guys who came last time when Andrew Yang was here, nice guy,
that Andrew Yang.
He's a great guy.
Yeah. He's.
A great guy. I hope he runs again.
Well, he is gonna run for mayor of, um, of New York city.
He's running right now. And Tim and this other gentleman who was, uh,
I forget what he did, but this other guy carries a gun.
And he's talking about like ramping up police presence. And, uh,
he's a black guy. Mm-hmm <affirmative> and,
and a lot of people are behind him and they think like,
this is what we need to turn the city around.
Like they need to respect law and order. Right.
And they need to do something about the crime.
And there's a shooting spree in times square. There they.
A four year old got shot. A woman in her daughter. It's crazy.
So here it is. Yeah. America's kills court rules.
Harvard doesn't discriminate against Asian American applicants. Oh, okay.
So this is federal appeals court in Boston is ruled Harvard doesn't
intentionally discriminate against Asian American applicants.
What is the argument? Cuz the,
there was a lot of Asian people that were insisting that that was the case said
the statistical evidence did not show that Harvard intentionally discriminated
against Asian Americans student for fair admissions and advocacy
advocacy group. Uh,
first file its lawsuit in 2014 saying it's Harvard that Harvard's raced based
considerations for applicants discriminated against Asian American students in
process today's decision. Once again,
finds that Harvard's admission policies were consistent with Supreme court,
pres Supreme court and lawfully appropriately pursue Harvard's efforts to create
a diverse campus that promotes learning and encourages mutual respect and
understanding our community. It was like, what is the argument though?
Opponents for ending race based considerations at us,
universities were unfazed by Thursday decision to plan to bring the case to the
Supreme court. So what does it say? What is the question? Okay.
The question of how much race should be a factor in college applications is a
hotly contested.
One president Trump's administration has challenged college on using race in
admission policies, claiming such practices violate federal law. Last month,
the department of justice filed a lawsuit against Yale university saying it's
Paul violate the civil rights act of 1964.
Yale has said the lawsuit is baseless.
What is school's admissions rules though? That's what I'm confused with.
Well, so does that mean, uh, external Chinese people or Chinese Americans?
Um, I think, I, I just think just Asian period. Well, when they do race,
they don't, they don't only want African Americans.
I mean, I'm Asian, you know what I mean? Right. So, I mean, it's vague, right.
But I mean, I could understand you're.
Can you're Canadian. It cancels everything out. It's true. It's true. Uh,
what is the race-based admission policy though?
That makes them say that they discriminated? Does it say,
see if you can find, oh, look, they've tried to pop up a, your.
See if you can find what the argument is that Harvard does
discriminate against Asians. But these guys that were with Andrew Yang, uh,
they believed pretty strongly that that's what Harvard was doing.
I mean, you know,
there's a lot of those admissions tests that are raced racial biased,
according to how you grew up and what you know, you know,
so I think what they tried to do is make it the person who wrote the test or
whatever wrote it from their perspective, we need.
To fix society so that you never have to think about that at all. You know,
oh, here it goes
in the lawsuit plaintiffs claim that Harvard imposes a soft racial quota,
which keeps the number of Asian Americans artificially low.
The low percentage of Asians admitted to Harvard plaintiffs may maintained a
suspiciously similar year after or despite dramatic increases in the number of
Asian American applicants and the size of the am, uh,
Asian American population during the lawsuit,
the plaintiffs gained access to Harvard's individualized admission files from
2014 to 19 and aggregate data from 2000 to
2019.
The plaintiffs also interviewed and deposed numerous Harvard officials from
those sources,
the plaintiffs revealed that Harvard emissions officers consistently rated Asian
American applicants as a group lower than others on traits
like positive personality, likability, courage, wow.
Kindness, and being widely respected the.
Just think about what that says. They,
they rate you on positive personality,
like ability, courage, kindness,
and being widely respected. Those are so vague.
Well, I mean, you know, different,
different nationalities have different personalities, you know,
different races have different ways of dealing with things.
And what may be considered offensive to one is not to the other, you know, or,
or likable to me is not likable to.
You for sure.
But look at it says here Asian-American scored higher than applicants of any
other racial or ethnic group on other admissions measures,
like test scores, gray and extracurricular activities.
But the student's personal rating significantly dragged down their admissions
chances. Wow. That's weird, man. That's I mean,
I guess you would have to talk to someone from Harvard and get them drunk and
say, what's really going on. Why do you have this likability, courage, kindness,
and be wildly respect. And what is a positive personality?
You have to be positive. What if you're like, God, I suck,
but you work really hard. Like that's a negative personality, but yeah.
You know, like you're, maybe you have a negative opinion of yourself,
but you work really.
Hard.
Maybe that's why you work hard because you don't think of yourself for a it's.
Weird man. Harvard's admission staff testified.
They did not believe that different racial groups have better personal qualities
than others. But nevertheless,
Asian applicants as a racial group receive consistently weaker personal scores
over the period surveyed and Harvard admissions officers rated Asian Americans
with the worst personal qualities of any racial group. Wow.
African Americans on the other hand consistently scored the lo the lowest on
academic rating, but the highest on the personal rating, you know,
what personal rating that like makes me think about like that whole,
the, the Chinese social score system. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I don't about that. I don't like that. That's a very weird thing.
Catch new episodes. The Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog J E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch,
which between video and audio experience on Spotify,
you can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the J R on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.